# Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3)

Is an object storage service offering industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Customers of all sizes and industries can store and protect any amount of data for virtually any use case, such as data lakes, cloud-native applications, and mobile apps. With cost-effective storage classes and easy-to-use management features, you can optimize costs, organize data, and configure fine-tuned access controls to meet specific business, organizational, and compliance requirements.

## Use cases

- Build a data lake

  Run big data analytics, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and high performance computing (HPC) applications to unlock data insights.

- Back up and restore critical data

  Meet Recovery Time Objectives (RTO), Recovery Point Objectives (RPO), and compliance requirements with S3’s robust replication features.

- Archive data at the lowest cost

  Move data archives to the Amazon S3 Glacier storage classes to lower costs, eliminate operational complexities, and gain new insights.

- Run cloud-native applications

  Build fast, powerful mobile and web-based cloud-native apps that scale automatically in a highly available configuration.

## AWS Lambda

AWS Lambda is a serverless computing service provided by Amazon Web Services (AWS). Users of AWS Lambda create functions, self-contained applications written in one of the supported languages and runtimes, and upload them to AWS Lambda, which executes those functions in an efficient and flexible manner.

The Lambda functions can perform any kind of computing task, from serving web pages and processing streams of data to calling APIs and integrating with other AWS services.

The concept of “serverless” computing refers to not needing to maintain your own servers to run these functions. AWS Lambda is a fully managed service that takes care of all the infrastructure for you. And so “serverless” doesn’t mean that there are no servers involved: it just means that the servers, the operating systems, the network layer and the rest of the infrastructure have already been taken care of, so that you can focus on writing application code.

## Content Delivery Network (CDN)

A Content Delivery Network (CDN) is a geographically distributed group of servers that work together to provide fast delivery of Internet content. A CDN allows for the fast transfer of data needed for loading Internet content including HTML pages, javascript files, stylesheets, images, and videos.

Employing a CDN doesn’t only speed up the delivery of Internet content, it helps protect your website against certain forms of cyber attacks, such as Denial of Service attacks. It protects against these threats because CDNs allow for the handling of more traffic and withstanding hardware failure better than many origin servers.
